Closes#1504 (#1656)
Codecademy/docs: content/go/concepts/composition/composition.md

## Structs

The following example creates a [struct](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/structs) called `pizza`

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}
```

This struct can be used to create a new function that can help define what specific style of pizza is wanted.

This is done in the following example:

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {
	return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
}

func main() {
	myPizza := Pizza{
		Name:        "Margherita",
		Size:        "medium",
		Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
		IsDelicious: true,
	}

	fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
}
```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This example results in the following output:

```
There should be line breaks before and after code blocks.

```shell
Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of [tomatoes mozzarella basil]
```

## A Struct Within a Struct

The following example has an important difference.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {
	return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
}

type Restaurant struct {
	Name      string
	Rating    int
	PizzaMenu []Pizza
}

func restaurantInfo(r Restaurant) string {
	return r.Name + " has a rating of " + fmt.Sprint(r.Rating) + " and serves the following pizzas: " + fmt.Sprint(r.PizzaMenu)
}

func main() {
	myPizza := Pizza{
		Name:        "Margherita",
		Size:        "medium",
		Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
		IsDelicious: true,
	}

	myRestaurant := Restaurant{
		Name:      "Pizzeria del Corso",
		Rating:    4,
		PizzaMenu: []Pizza{myPizza},
	}

	fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
	fmt.Println(restaurantInfo(myRestaurant))
}
```

> In this example the `Restaurant` struct contains the `Pizza` struct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this example the `Restaurant` struct contains the `Pizza` struct.
```
There should be a line break after the code block.

In this example, a struct called `Pizza` is defined with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The `pizzaStyle` function takes a `Pizza` struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.

A struct called `Restaurant` is also defined that contains the `Pizza` struct, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The `restaurantInfo` function takes a `Restaurant` struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.

In the main function, a `Pizza` struct called `myPizza` and a `Restaurant` struct called `myRestaurant` are created. Then `myPizza` is passsed to `pizzaStyle` and `myRestaurant` is passed to `restaurantInfo`, which are then printed to the console.

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example results in the following output:

```
There should be a line break before the code block.

---
Title: 'Composition'

> Description: 'Composition is useful for building flexible and maintainable code.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Composition is useful for building flexible and maintainable code.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Composition'
  - 'Development'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> In Go, composition refers to the structuring of data and behavior by combining multiple smaller types into a single, larger type. Composition in Go is achieved through embedding, which allows a struct to inherit the fields and methods of another struct. This allows for code reuse and modular design. Composition in Go is often preferred over inheritance as it provides a more flexible and maintainable approach to structuring code. With composition, complex types can be built from simpler components, promoting separation of concerns and making the code easier to understand and test. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Go, composition refers to the structuring of data and behavior by combining multiple smaller types into a single, larger type. Composition in Go is achieved through embedding, which allows a `struct` to inherit the fields and methods of another `struct`. This allows for code reuse and modular design. Composition in Go is often preferred over inheritance as it provides a more flexible and maintainable approach to structuring code. With composition, complex types can be built from simpler components, promoting separation of concerns and making the code easier to understand and test. 
```

I see that you wrote, composition is preferred over inheritance in Go. Does it support inheritance?

## Structs

> The following example creates a [struct](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/structs) called `Pizza`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates a [`struct`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/structs) called `Pizza`:
```

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
  Name        string
  Size        string
  Toppings    []string
  IsDelicious bool
}
```

This structure can be used to create a new function that can help define what specific style of pizza is ordered.

This is done in the following example:

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
  Name        string
  Size        string
  Toppings    []string
  IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {
  return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
}

func main() {
  myPizza := Pizza{
    Name:        "Margherita",
    Size:        "medium",
    Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
    IsDelicious: true,
  }
  fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
}
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of [tomatoes mozzarella basil]
```

## A Struct Within a Struct

The following example has an important difference.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
  Name        string
  Size        string
  Toppings    []string
  IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {

>   return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of: " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
```

    Size:        "medium",
    Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
    IsDelicious: true,
  }

  myRestaurant := Restaurant{
    Name:      "Pizzeria del Corso",
    Rating:    4,
    PizzaMenu: []Pizza{myPizza},
  }

  fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
  fmt.Println(restaurantInfo(myRestaurant))
}
```

In this example `Restaurant` contains the `Pizza` structure.

The `Pizza` `struct` is defined with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The `pizzaStyle` function takes a `Pizza` `struct` as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.

A `struct` named `Restaurant` is also defined that contains the `Pizza` structure, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The `restaurantInfo()` function takes a `Restaurant` instance as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.

In the main function, a `Pizza` struct called `myPizza` and a `Restaurant` `struct` called `myRestaurant` are created. Then, `myPizza` is passed to `pizzaStyle()` and `myRestaurant` is passed to `restaurantInfo()`, which are then printed to the console.

This example results in the following output:

```shell

> Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of [tomatoes mozzarella basil]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of: [tomatoes mozzarella basil]
```

> In this example `Restaurant` contains the `Pizza` structure.
> 
> In this example, a `struct` named `Pizza` is defined with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The `pizzaStyle` function takes a `Pizza` `struct` as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.
> 
> A `struct` named `Restaurant` is also defined that contains the `Pizza` structure, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The `restaurantInfo()` function takes a `Restaurant` instance as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.
> 
> In the main function, a `Pizza` struct called `myPizza` and a `Restaurant` `struct` called `myRestaurant` are created. Then `myPizza` is passsed to `pizzaStyle` and `myRestaurant` is passed to `restaurantInfo`, which are then printed to the console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example `Restaurant` contains the `Pizza` structure.

The `Pizza` `struct` is defined with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The `pizzaStyle` function takes a `Pizza` `struct` as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.

A `struct` named `Restaurant` is also defined that contains the `Pizza` structure, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The `restaurantInfo()` function takes a `Restaurant` instance as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.

In the main function, a `Pizza` struct called `myPizza` and a `Restaurant` `struct` called `myRestaurant` are created. Then, `myPizza` is passed to `pizzaStyle()` and `myRestaurant` is passed to `restaurantInfo()`, which are then printed to the console.
```

Pizzeria del Corso has a rating of 4 and serves the following pizzas: [{Margherita medium [tomatoes mozzarella basil] true}]
```

## Benefits Of Using Composition

> Composition is a very strong technique for making complex structures and objects as a developer. Problems are broken down into smaller parts, and then managed in a structured way. The result is something that is efficient, maintainable, and flexible. (All important for solving problems!)
> 
> When designing software, it's important to consider the composition of the components we create and how they fit together to form a larger system. By adopting a compositional approach, software is created that is flexible, scalable, and easy to maintain over time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Composition is a very strong technique for making complex structures and objects as a developer. Problems are broken down into smaller parts, and then managed in a structured way.

When designing software, it's important to consider the composition of the components created and how they fit together to form a larger system. By adopting a compositional approach, software is created that is flexible, scalable, and easy to maintain over time.
```

---
Title: 'Composition' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Composition is useful for building flexible and maintainable code.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Composition'
  - 'Development'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Go's **composition** is like having a big toolbox with all the special tools needed to build amazing computer projects. The English definition of compose means to "create" or "make up a whole by adding parts". Go's composition is a combination of various elements that make the language a powerful and efficient tool for software development. 

Reviewer 2: @ZeraAI can we address this comment

> Go's **composition** is like having a big toolbox with all the special tools needed to build amazing computer projects. The English definition of compose means to "create" or "make up a whole by adding parts". Go's composition is a combination of various elements that make the language a powerful and efficient tool for software development. 

Author: I went ahead and added a much more technical and formal definition @yangc95

## Structs

> Go's composition is a combination of various elements that make the language a powerful and efficient tool for software development. 

Reviewer: We still need to remove this line.

Author: are you referring to line 20? I wasn't sure what you were referring to, but I went ahead and removed it

The following example creates a [struct](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/structs) called `pizza`

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}
```

This struct can be used to create a new function that can help define what specific style of pizza is wanted.

This is done in the following example:

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {
	return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
}

func main() {
	myPizza := Pizza{
		Name:        "Margherita",
		Size:        "medium",
		Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
		IsDelicious: true,
	}

	fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
}
```

> **This example results in the following output:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This example results in the following output:

```

```shell
Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of [tomatoes mozzarella basil]
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove the extra two line breaks.

## A Struct Within a Struct

The following example has an important difference.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {
	return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
}

type Restaurant struct {
	Name      string
	Rating    int
	PizzaMenu []Pizza
}

func restaurantInfo(r Restaurant) string {
	return r.Name + " has a rating of " + fmt.Sprint(r.Rating) + " and serves the following pizzas: " + fmt.Sprint(r.PizzaMenu)
}

func main() {
	myPizza := Pizza{
		Name:        "Margherita",
		Size:        "medium",
		Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
		IsDelicious: true,
	}

	myRestaurant := Restaurant{
		Name:      "Pizzeria del Corso",
		Rating:    4,
		PizzaMenu: []Pizza{myPizza},
	}

	fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
	fmt.Println(restaurantInfo(myRestaurant))
}
```

In this example the `Restaurant` struct contains the `Pizza` struct.

> In this example, a struct called `Pizza` is defined with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The `pizzaStyle` function takes a `Pizza` struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, a `struct` named `Pizza` is defined with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The `pizzaStyle` function takes a `Pizza` struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.
```

> A struct called `Restaurant` is also defined that contains the `Pizza` struct, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The `restaurantInfo` function takes a `Restaurant` struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `struct` named `Restaurant` is also defined that contains the `Pizza` structure, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The `restaurantInfo()` function takes a `Restaurant` instance as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.
```

> In the main function, a `Pizza` struct called `myPizza` and a `Restaurant` struct called `myRestaurant` are created. Then `myPizza` is passsed to `pizzaStyle` and `myRestaurant` is passed to `restaurantInfo`, which are then printed to the console.

Reviewer 2: Let's refer to our instances as such (use word instance). Also, place `struct` keyword in backticks, otherwise write out "structure" here.

Author: I am not fully sure what you mean by instances. However, I went ahead and placed backticks on anywhere with the word `struct` and left the word structure alone.

Reviewer 2: An instance is an object that's created from the (in this case) structure. So `myPizza` is an instance of `Pizza` and `myRestaurant` is an instance of `Restaurant`

In the main function, a `Pizza` struct called `myPizza` and a `Restaurant` struct called `myRestaurant` are created. Then `myPizza` is passsed to `pizzaStyle` and `myRestaurant` is passed to `restaurantInfo`, which are then printed to the console.

> **This example results in the following output:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example results in the following output:

```

```shell
Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of [tomatoes mozzarella basil]
Pizzeria del Corso has a rating of 4 and serves the following pizzas: [{Margherita medium [tomatoes mozzarella basil] true}]
```

> ## Conclusions

Reviewer 2: Can we change this heading to something more meaningful to go along with what's discussed in this section? Perhaps benefits of using composition or something along those lines.

---
Title: 'composition' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Composition is useful for building flexible and maintainable code' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!

>   - 'Composition'

Author: pr sent to add composition in tags.md #1678

  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

Go's **composition** is like having a big toolbox with all the special tools you need to build amazing computer projects. The English definition of compose means to "create" or "make up a whole by adding parts". As composition is the noun form of compose, you can take a gander of what composition in Go might consist of.

## First things first, structs

Go's composition is a combination of various elements that make the language a powerful and efficient tool for software development. 

Let us take a look by first creating a struct called `pizza`

```
package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}
```
[Are you feeling bewildered by the concept of structs in programming? Look no further! Don't let confusion hold you back - unlock the power of structs today by clicking this text!](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/go/structs)

## Using the struct we created to make a function

> Now that we have our struct, we are capable of creating a new function that can help us define what specific **Style of Pizza** we want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This struct can be used to create a new function that can help define what specific style of pizza is wanted.
```

> So let's do that here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done in the following example:

```

> ```

Reviewer: This should be a ```go code block.

package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {
	return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
}

func main() {
	myPizza := Pizza{
		Name:        "Margherita",
		Size:        "medium",
		Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
		IsDelicious: true,
	}

	fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
}
```

> **What do you think this would output?**

Reviewer: Instead of this, we should have the output in a ```shell code block with a sentence introduction like "This example results in the following output:"

<details><summary>Click here to get the answer:</summary>
    <pre>
    Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of [tomatoes mozzarella basil]
    </pre>
</details>

> ## A struct within a struct?! It's a composition!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A Struct Within a Struct
```
Headers should be title case, not contain punctuation, and generally be five words or less.

> Take a good long look at this code and try to see what is different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example has an important difference.
```

> ```

Reviewer: This should be a ```go code block.

package main

import "fmt"

type Pizza struct {
	Name        string
	Size        string
	Toppings    []string
	IsDelicious bool
}

func pizzaStyle(p Pizza) string {
	return p.Name + " pizza is a " + p.Size + " pizza with toppings of " + fmt.Sprint(p.Toppings)
}

type Restaurant struct {
	Name      string
	Rating    int
	PizzaMenu []Pizza
}

func restaurantInfo(r Restaurant) string {
	return r.Name + " has a rating of " + fmt.Sprint(r.Rating) + " and serves the following pizzas: " + fmt.Sprint(r.PizzaMenu)
}

func main() {
	myPizza := Pizza{
		Name:        "Margherita",
		Size:        "medium",
		Toppings:    []string{"tomatoes", "mozzarella", "basil"},
		IsDelicious: true,
	}

	myRestaurant := Restaurant{
		Name:      "Pizzeria del Corso",
		Rating:    4,
		PizzaMenu: []Pizza{myPizza},
	}

	fmt.Println(pizzaStyle(myPizza))
	fmt.Println(restaurantInfo(myRestaurant))
}
```

> You can see that the **Restaurant struct contains the Pizza struct!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example the `Restaurant` struct contains the `Pizza` struct.
```

> In this example, we define a struct called Pizza with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The pizzaStyle function takes a Pizza struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, a struct called `Pizza` is defined with fields for the name, size, toppings, and whether or not it's delicious. The `pizzaStyle` function takes a `Pizza` struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the pizza.
```

> We also define a struct called Restaurant that contains the pizza struct, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The restaurantInfo function takes a Restaurant struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A struct called `Restaurant` is also defined that contains the `Pizza` struct, the restaurant name, and the restaurant rating. The `restaurantInfo` function takes a `Restaurant` struct as an argument and returns a string that describes the restaurant.
```

> In the main function, we create a Pizza struct called myPizza and a Restaurant struct called myRestaurant. We then pass myPizza to pizzaStyle and myRestaurant to restaurantInfo, which are then printed to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the main function, a `Pizza` struct called `myPizza` and a `Restaurant` struct called `myRestaurant` are created. Then `myPizza` is passsed to `pizzaStyle` and `myRestaurant` is passed to `restaurantInfo`, which are then printed to the console.
```

> **Can you guess what both outputs would be?**

Reviewer: As before, let's make the output listed in a ```shell block with a sentence intro.

<details><summary>Click here to get the answer!</summary>
    <pre>
    Margherita pizza is a medium pizza with toppings of [tomatoes mozzarella basil]
    Pizzeria del Corso has a rating of 4 and serves the following pizzas: [{Margherita medium [tomatoes mozzarella basil] true}]
    </pre>
</details>

> # Conclusion about Compositions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusions
```

> Composition is no doubt a very strong technique for making complex structures and objects as a developer. We break down problems into smaller parts, and then manage them in a structured way. As a result, we get something that is efficient, maintainable, and flexible. (All important for solving problems!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composition is a very strong technique for making complex structures and objects as a developer. Problems are broken down into smaller parts, and then managed in a structured way. The result is something that is efficient, maintainable, and flexible. (All important for solving problems!)
```

> When designing software, it's important to consider the composition of the components we create and how they fit together to form a larger system. By adopting a compositional approach, we can create software that is flexible, scalable, and easy to maintain over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When designing software, it's important to consider the composition of the components we create and how they fit together to form a larger system. By adopting a compositional approach, software is created that is flexible, scalable, and easy to maintain over time.
```

> 

Reviewer: Eliminate the trailing line breaks.
